# Definitions
1. The **characteristic** of a field F , denoted ch(F), is defined to be the smallest positive integer p such that $p·1_F$ = 0 if such a p exists and is defined to be 0 otherwise.
2. The **prime subfield** of a field F is the subfield of F generated by the multiplicative identity $1_F$ of F. It is (isomorphic to) either $\mathbb{Q}$ (if ch(F) = 0) or $F_p$ (if ch(F) = p).
3. If K is a field containing the sub field F, then K is said to be an **extension field** (or simply an extension) of F.
4. The **degree** (or relative degree or index) of a field extension K over F, denoted $[K : F]$, is the dimension of K as a vector space over F (i.e., $[K : F]$ = $dim_FK$).
5. The **field generated by $\alpha,\beta,\dots$** is the smallest extension of $F$ containing both $F$ as its subfield and the elements $\alpha,\beta,\dots$
6. A **simple field** is the field generated by a single element $\alpha$, called the **primitive element**
7. An element $\alpha\in K$, an extension of $F$ is called **algebraic** over $F$ if $\exists p(x)$,irreducible in $F[x]$ such that $p(\alpha)=0$, **transcental** otherwise.
8. The **minimal polynomial** of an algenraic element $\alpha$ is the unique monic, irreducible polynomial with $\alpha$ as a root in $F[x]$ dividing all the polynomials in $F[x]$ with $\alpha$ as a root.
9. An extension $K/F$ is **finitely generated** if it contains element $\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_n$ such that $K=F(\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_n)$
10. 
11. 
12. The splitting field of a polynomial $f(x)\in F$ is the smallest (in terms of containment) field extension of $F$ in which $f(x)\in F[x]$ splits completely into linear factors.
13. If $K$ is an *algebraic extension* of $F$ which is the splitting field over $F$ for a collection of polynomials $f(x) \in F[x]$ then $K$ is called a **normal extension** of $F$.
14. A $n^{th}$ **primitive root of unity** is a generator of the cyclic group of all the $n$ roots of unity, denoted by $\zeta_n$
15. The field $\mathbb{Q}(\zeta_n)$ is called the **cyclotomic** field of the $n^{th}$ roots of unity.
16. The closure of a field $F$ is an algebraic extension of $F$ in which each polynomial of $F[x]$ splits completely.
17. A field $K$ is said to be **closed** of every polynomial in $K[x]$ has a root in $K$.
18. A polynomial over a field is called **seperable** if its roots are distinct
19. The **derivative** of a polynomial $\Sigma a_ix^i$ is defined to be the polynomial $\Sigma i!* a_ix^{i-1}$
20. A perfect field is one in which every element is a $p^{th}$ power, $p$ being the characteristic of the field, or the characteristic is $0$.
21. $deg(p_{sep}(x))$ is called the seperable degree of $p(x)$ $d_s(p(x))$ and $p^k$ its inseperable degree $d_i(p(x))$ . in particular $deg(p(x))=d_s(p(x))d_i(p(x))$
22. A field $K$ is said to be **seperable** over a field $F$ if the minimal polynomial over $F$ of any element in $K$ is seperable.
23. $\mu_n$ denotes the (cyclic) group of the $n^{th}$ roots of unity. This group is isomorphic to $\mathbb(Z)_ n$ under n-modulo addition. The primitive roots precisely correspond to the residue classes prime to n. Hence there are $\phi(n)$ of them. Also $d|n\implies \mu_d\subseteq \mu_n$ Conversly the order of any element in $\mu_n$ divides $n$.
24. The $n^{th}$ cylotomic polynomial is the polynomal whose roots are the primitive $n^{th}$ roots of unity.
