# Propositions, Lemmas, Theorems and Corollories
1. The characteristic of a field F, ch(F), is either 0 or ch(F) = p then for any a $\in$ F, p 路 a = a + a + 路 路 路 + a = 0.
2. Let f : F $\rightarrow$ F' be a homomorphism of fields. Then f is either identically 0 or is injective, so that the image of f is either 0 or isomorphic to F.
3. For a field $F$ and an irreducible polynomial $p(x)$ over it, $\exists K$ a field containing an isomorphic copy of F in which $p(x)$ has a root.
4. Let $p(x)$ be an irreducible polynomial in $F[x]$, defining, $\theta=x\ mod(p(x))$ we have that $\{1,\theta,\theta^2,\dots,\theta^{n-1}\}$ forms a basis for $K$ over $F$. K being defined as $\frac{F[x]}{\lt p(x)\gt}$ 
5. Multiplication in $K:=\frac{F[x]}{\lt p(x)\gt}$ is defined modulo $p(x)$ and this makes $K$ a field.
6. If $\alpha$ is the root of an irreducible polynomial $p(x)\in F[x]$ then $F(\alpha) \cong \frac{F[x]}{\lt p(x)\gt}$ 
7. If $\alpha$ is the root of an irreducible polynoiam of degree n, then $F(\alpha)=\{a_0+a_1\alpha+a_2\alpha^2+\dots+a_{n-1}\alpha^{n-1}|a_i\in F\}$
8. If $\Phi$ is an isomorphism of field $F$ and $F'$ and $p(x)$ is an irreducible polynomial in $F[x]$ with root $\alpha$, and $\beta$ is a root of it's image $p'(x)$ , then $F(\alpha)\cong F'(\beta)$
9. For every $\alpha$ algebraic over $F$, $\exists!$ monic polynomial $m_{\alpha,F}(x)$ such that $m_{\alpha,F}(0)=0$ and if for $f \in F[x]$ $f(\alpha)=0$, then $m_{\alpha,F}(x)|f(x)$.
10. If $L\supseteq F$ is an extension of $F$ then, $m_{\alpha,L}(x)$ | $m_{\alpha,F}(x)$
11. $[ F(\alpha): F ]=deg(m_{\alpha,F}(x))$ 
12. $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F \iff [F(\alpha):F]\lt \infty$
13. $K$ an extension over $F$ is finite $\implies$ it is algebraic.
14. $[L:F]=[L:K][K:F]$
15. For any finite extension $L/F$ and subfield $K\supseteq F$, $[K:F]\ |\ [L:F]$
16. $F(\alpha,\beta)=F(\alpha)(\beta)$
17. An extension $K/F$ is finite of degree n $\iff$ $K=F(\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_n)$
18. Suppose $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are algebraic over $F$. Then $\alpha \pm \beta$ , $\alpha\beta$ and $\alpha/\beta$, are all algebraic over $F$.
19. $K:=$ All elements in an extension $L/F$ that are algebraic over $F$ forms a algebraic subfield of L.
20. If $L$ is algebraic over $K$ and $K$ is algebraic over $F$, then $L$ is algebraic over $F$.
21. If $K_1$ and $K_2$ are two finite extensions of a field $F$ contained in a field $K$, then $[K_1K_2:F]\le [K_1:F][K_2:F]$
22. If $K_1$ and $K_2$ are two finite extensions of a field $F$ contained in a field $K$ with co-prime degrees, then $[K_1K_2:F]=[K_1:F][K_2:F]$
23. 
24. 
25. For any field $F$, if $f(x) \in F[x]$ then there exists an extension $K$ of $F$ which is a splitting field for $f(x)$
26. The splitting field of a polynomial $f(x)\in F{x]$ of degree n has degree $\lt n!$ over $F$
27. Splitting fields of isomorphic polynomials are isomorphic.
28. Any two splitting fields of a polynomial are isomorphic.
29. Closure of an algebraic field is closed.
30. For any field $F$ $\exists$ an algebraically closed field $K$ containg $F$.
31. The collection of $F-algebraic$ elements in a closed field $K\supseteq F$ form a closure of $F$.
32. The field $\mathbb{C}$ contains a closure for any of its subfields.
33. A multiple root of a polynomial is a root of its derivative and a polynomial is thus inseperable iff $(f(x),Df(x))=1$. When the derivative is trivial, then the polynomial must be a polynomial of the $p^{th}$ power of $x$ , p being the characteristic of the field.
34. A polynomial over a field of characteristic $0$ is seperable iff it is a product of distinct irreducible polynomials.
35. In a field of characteristic $p$, the $p^{th}$ power map is an injective field endomorphism, called **frobenius**
36. A finite field of characteristic $F$ is perfect.
37. In any finite field a polynomial is seperable iff it is a product of distinct irreducible polynomials.
38. For a irreducible polynomial $p(x)$ over a field of characteristic $p$, $\exists!\ k$ and seperable polynomial $p_{sep}(x)$ over the field such that $p(x)=p_{sep}(x^{p^k})$.
39. Every finite extension of a perfect field is seperable.
40. The cylotomic polynomial is a monic polynomial in $\mathbb{Z}$.
41. The cylotomic polynomial is an irreducible polynomial in $\mathbb{Z}$ of degree $\phi(n)$.
42. The degree of the cyclotomic field of the $n^{th}$ roots of unity is $\phi(n)$.
